SOS/dotnet-dump extensibility - Part 1 (#1823)
dotnet/diagnostics: documentation/design-docs/dotnet-dump-extensibility.md

# Diagnostic Tools Extensibility

This document is a work in progress.

> This document describes a possible design to allow first and third party users to add their own commands and services to the dotnet-dump and SOS on the debuggers supported. External companies like Criteo and a few internal groups have asked for way to extend dotnet-dump and SOS. The goal is to write the same code for a command once and run it under the all the supported debuggers and dotnet-dump.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes a mechanism to allow first and third party users to add custom commands and services to `dotnet-dump` and `SOS` on the supported debuggers. Such extensibility has been a frequent ask from companies like Criteo and some teams at Microsoft. The goal is to write the code for a command once and have it run under all the supported debuggers, including dotnet-dump.
```

Author: Done.

> Internally, the ability to host commands like the future "gcheapdiff" under dotnet-dump, lldb and cdb/windbg will be invaluable. The implementation of new commands in C# is faster/more productive for each future command our team needs to add. Other people on .NET team and in the community are more likely to contribute improvements into our tools (similar to what Stephen did with DumpAsync). Unlike the plugin situation, if they contribute directly to our repo then the improvements will automatically flow to all customers and provide broader value.

Author: I merged too soon.  I'll get your suggestions in the Part 2 PR.

> This effort is part of the "untified extensiblity" where various teams are coming together to define a common debugger abstraction across all of the debuggers and debugger like hosts (dotnet-dump). Azure Watson could use this infrastructure to write a !analyze like commands and other analysis tools using a very subset of the DAC (as a service) to do some unhandled exception and stack trace triage.

Author: I can't spell obviously.
